# Practice Exam Notes

### Return to

- [ ] Question 9 on EMR
- [ ] Failure Management in Well-Architected framework

## Security

### Protecting against infrastructure attacks

- AWS Shield Advanced
  - Enhanced detection of attack traffic
  - Mitigation against obscure and large-scale attacks
  - Real-time notifications via CloudWatch
  - 24x7 access to DDoS Response Team
  - Detailed diagnostics on AWS WAF and Shield consoles
  - Safeguards against charges resulting from scaling during DDoS attacks
  - Protects EIP, ELB, CloudFront, Global Accelerator and Route53
- AWS Config
  - Assess, audit, and evaluate configurations of resources
  - Continuous monitoring
  - Automated evaluations

**What doesn't help**

- AWS WAF and Firewall Manager
  - Blocks Application Layer attacks such as SQL injection or XSS
  - Doesn't protect against DDoS

**Cheat Sheets**

[AWS Shield](https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-cheat-sheet-aws-shield/)

[AWS Config](https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-cheat-sheet-aws-config/)

**References**

[AWS Shield](https://aws.amazon.com/shield/)

[AWS Config](https://aws.amazon.com/config/)

[AWS WAF](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/what-is-aws-waf.html)

**References and Links**

| Service    | Links                                                        |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| AWS Shield | [Cheat Sheet](https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-cheat-sheet-aws-shield/) \| [Product Page](https://aws.amazon.com/shield/) |
| AWS Config | [Cheat Sheet](https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-cheat-sheet-aws-config/) \| [Product Page](https://aws.amazon.com/config/) |



### Monitoring for changes in AWS Account or Organization

The goal here is to log changes to AWS accounts *and* to notify administrators of those changes. Methods include, but are not limited to the following.

**Using CloudTrail and CloudWatch Events**

The following services are utilized to log and notify administrators of changes. These concepts can be applied to much more than account or organization changes. Here's a brief description of each.

- CloudTrail
  - **Trails** can capture *any AWS API calls*, including those from the Organizations console.
  - Can **log** to S3 

- CloudWatch Events

  - Components
    - ***Events*** - Generated by AWS resources when their state changes. 
    - ***Target*** - Processes events. Can be ***Lambda***, ***SNS Topics***, EC2, SQS, or others. 
    - ***Rules*** - Filters incoming events and routes them to a target or targets in JSON format.

- Lambda

  - A serverless function
  - Can act as a ***Target*** and receive CloudWatch Events. 
  - Can log to CloudWatch

- Simple Notification System (SNS)

  - Manages delivery of messages from ***publishers*** to ***subscribers***
  - Messages are organized into ***SNS Topics***
  - ***Publishers*** can be just about anything that can make an API call, including CloudWatch Events.
  - ***Subscribers*** include: Email, SMS, Lambda, HTTP, and SQS

  

  **Question**

  Why use Lambda if CloudTrail is already logging to an S3 bucket?



**Using AWS Config**

A much simpler approach than the previous method. It's just the tip of the iceberg of this powerful and complex tool. 

- Simple Notification System (SNS)
  - Manages delivery of messages from ***publishers*** to ***subscribers.***
  - Messages are organized into ***SNS Topics***.
  - ***Publishers*** can be just about anything that can make an API call, including ***AWS Config***.
  - ***Subscribers*** include: Email, SMS, Lambda, HTTP, and SQS.
- AWS Config
  - Monitors compliance of resource configurations in an ***account or multiple accounts*** via an aggregator. 
  - Can be triggered by configuration changes or on periodic time intervals.
  - Logs changes to ***S3 bucket*** and optionally an ***SNS Topic***. 

## 

